# Changelog

## 0.10.0 - 2024-02-25

### Bumped

- Bumped `rusqlite` to 0.31 (sqlite 3.45.0)

### Added

- Added `.delete()` method ([#36](https://github.com/trevyn/turbosql/pull/36), thanks @PedroTurik!)
- Added an `update!` macro
- Parse result type in `select!` as a Type instead of Ident, allowing for more flexibility.
- Added support for non-Option, `NOT NULL` types via SQL defaults.
- Added `now_µs` and `db_path` functions

### Changed

- MSRV is now Rust 1.72

### Fixed

- Fixed incompatibility with array types and upcoming Rust 1.77

## 0.9.0 - 2023-11-15

### Bumped

- Bumped `rusqlite` to 0.30 (sqlite 3.44.0)

### Added

- Allow selecting for `Option<primitive type>` and `Vec<primitive type>`. ([#33](https://github.com/trevyn/turbosql/pull/33), thanks @gmorenz!)

### Changed

- In `select!`, `Vec<u8>` is now interpreted as multiple rows of `u8`. Use the newtype `Blob` to select a single row `BLOB` result.
- MSRV is now Rust 1.70

## 0.8.0 - 2023-04-06

### Bumped

- Bumped `rusqlite` to 0.29 (sqlite 3.41.2)
- Bumped `toml` to 0.7. This will cause non-semantic changes to your `migrations.toml`.
- Bumped `syn` to 2.

### Improved

- `select!` and `execute!` macros now allow more concatenation options, and allow literal commas to appear outside of quotes.

### Fixed

- Fixed problem where `serde_json` had to be in user scope.
- Improved compatibility with `rust-analyzer`.

### Changed

- MSRV is now Rust 1.60

## 0.7.0 - 2022-07-22

### Bumped

- Bumped `rusqlite` to 0.28

## 0.6.0 - 2022-06-23

### Added

- Added `sqlite-compat-no-strict-tables` feature, which allows easier compatibility with tools using a version of SQLite prior to 3.37. The downside is that some extra typechecking is disabled.
- Allow selecting into Vec of primitive type, e.g. `select!(Vec<String> "name FROM table")`.
- `struct` fields with unrecognized types are now serialized/deserialized as JSON. These types must implement `serde::Serialize` and `serde::Deserialize`. This might synergize well with SQLite's built-in JSON support!

### Changed

- Reworked Error/Result type.

## 0.5.0 - 2022-03-05

### Bumped

- Bumped `rusqlite` to 0.27

### Added

- Added support for `Vec<u8>` and `[u8; N]` types.
- Added a `now_ms()` convenience function for timestamps.
- Added expression interpolation:
  - ```rust,ignore
    let name = "John";
    select!(Person "WHERE name = " name);
    ```

### Fixed

- Dependencies can also use Turbosql, and their tables will be added to your project's root `migrations.toml`.
- Improved compatibility with `rust-analyzer` when proc-macro expansion is enabled.

## 0.4.0 - 2021-12-09

### Bumped

- Bumped `rusqlite` to 0.26.3

### Removed

- Removed `i54_` support. Try the `turbocharger` crate, which supports `i64`/`BigInt` via RPC. :)

### Changed

- MSRV is now Rust 1.56
- New tables are created with SQLite 3.37's `STRICT` mode.

## 0.3.1 - 2021-09-03

### Fixed

- Symlink `README.md` so crates.io published package works.

## 0.3.0 - 2021-09-03

### Added

- Added `Turbosql` trait that represents the methods added by `#[derive(Turbosql)]`.
- Added `.update()` trait method. The row matching the caller's `rowid` is updated; all fields are replaced in the database.

### Changed

- MSRV is now Rust 1.54
- Some returned errors of type `anyhow::Error` have been changed to `turbosql::TurbosqlError`.

### Fixed

- If no `migrations.toml` file exists in the project, an empty one will be created to prevent a cryptic error. :)

## 0.2.0 - 2021-05-23

### Bumped

- Bumped `rusqlite` to 0.25

### Added

- Added support for struct fields of additional type: `f32`
  - e.g. `struct S { field_f32: Option<f32> }`

## 0.1.7 - 2021-03-02

### Added

- Added `thread_local` SQLite connections and support for transactions. See [https://github.com/trevyn/turbosql#transactions-and-async](https://github.com/trevyn/turbosql#transactions-and-async)
- Added some extra table info to `migrations.toml` to give the proc macro more information to do its job.
- Added `turbosql::checkpoint()` to perform a SQLite WAL checkpoint operation.

## 0.1.5 - 2021-02-18

### Changed

- Renamed `autogenerated_schema_for_your_information_do_not_edit` to `output_generated_schema_for_your_information_do_not_edit` for smoother existence with auto-alphabetizing `toml` extensions.
- Pretty-print the generated schema for smoother reading.

## 0.1.4 - 2021-02-06

### Internal

- Renamed the internal `turbosql_migrations` table to `_turbosql_migrations`. It should be renamed automatically on existing `.sqlite` databases.

## 0.1.2 - 2021-02-06

### Added

- SQL comments (lines starting with `--`) are now always ignored when applying migrations, allowing you to make comments in your `migrations.toml` and edit and move the comments around over time.

## 0.1.1 - 2021-02-06

### Added

- Added ability to create a placeholder migration to "hint" Turbosql about the effect of a complex manual migration such as a column type change.

### Improved

- Proc-macro error message for schema migration failures now includes the specific SQL statement that failed.

## 0.1.0 - 2021-02-02

### Added

- Added support for `select!` directly into additional type: `f64`
  - e.g. `select!(f64 "bayesian_probability FROM table")`

### Fixed

- `.insert()` now returns correct `rowid` instead of count of affected rows.

## 0.0.3 - 2021-01-14

### Added

- Added support for `select!` directly into additional types: `String`, `i8`, `u8`, `i16`, `u16`, `i32`, `u32`
  - e.g. `select!(String "post_title FROM table")`

## 0.0.2 - 2021-01-12

- Initial release! 🎉
